[Edit] Python: Request Module (#7333)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/requests-module/requests-module.md

---
Title: 'Requests Module'
Description: 'HTTP library for Python that makes sending HTTP requests straightforward and human-friendly.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'APIs'
  - 'HTTP'
  - 'Libraries'
  - 'Requests'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`requests`** module in Python is an HTTP library that makes sending HTTP requests straightforward and human-friendly. It abstracts the complexities of making [HTTP](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/http) requests behind a simple [API](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/api), allowing developers to send HTTP/1.1 requests without manually adding query strings to URLs or form-encoding POST data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`requests`** module in Python is an HTTP library that makes sending [HTTP](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/http) requests straightforward and human-friendly. It abstracts the complexities of making HTTP requests behind a simple [API](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/general/api), allowing developers to send HTTP/1.1 requests without manually adding query strings to URLs or form-encoding POST data.
```

- **DELETE** ([`delete()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/requests-module/delete)): Remove data from a server
- **PATCH** (`patch()`): Apply partial modifications to a resource
- **HEAD** ([`head()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/requests-module/head)): Retrieve headers only (no body content)

## Example 1: Basic GET Request Using Python's `requests` Module

This example demonstrates how to make a simple GET request and access the response:

```py
import requests

# Make a GET request to a web API
response = requests.get('https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts/1')

# Print the status code and response content
print(f"Status Code: {response.status_code}")
print(f"Content: {response.json()}")
```

The output of the above code will be:

```shell
Status Code: 200
Content: {'userId': 1, 'id': 1, 'title': 'sunt aut facere repellat provident occaecati excepturi optio reprehenderit', 'body': 'quia et suscipit\nsuscipit recusandae consequuntur expedita et cum\nreprehenderit molestiae ut ut quas totam\nnostrum rerum est autem sunt rem eveniet architecto'}
```

> The above code sends a GET request to a JSON placeholder API and prints the HTTP status code and the JSON response content. The `requests.get()` method returns a Response object containing all the response information.
> 
> ## Example 2: Using `requests` Module in Python to POST Request with Data
> 
> This example shows how to send data to a server using a POST request with JSON payload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above code sends a GET request to a JSON placeholder API and prints the HTTP status code and the JSON response content. The `requests.get()` method returns a `Response` object containing all the response information.

## Example 2: Using `requests` Module in Python to POST Request with Data

This example shows how to send data to a server using a POST request with a JSON payload:
```

```py
import requests

# Data to send in the request body
user_data = {
  'name': 'John Doe',
  'email': 'john.doe@example.com',
  'age': 30
}

# Make a POST request with JSON data
response = requests.post(
  'https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users',
  json=user_data
)

# Check if the request was successful
if response.status_code == 201:
  print("User created successfully!")
  print(f"Response: {response.json()}")
else:
  print(f"Error: {response.status_code}")
```

The output of the above example will be:

```shell
User created successfully!
Response: {'name': 'John Doe', 'email': 'john.doe@example.com', 'age': 30, 'id': 11}
```

> This example creates a new user by sending a POST request with JSON data. The `json` parameter automatically serializes the Python dictionary to JSON and sets the appropriate Content-Type header.
> 
> ## Example 3: Handling API Authentication With the `requests` Module
> 
> This example demonstrates how to make authenticated requests using API keys or basic authentication:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to send structured data to an API using POST with automatic JSON serialization.

## Example 3: Handling API Authentication With the `requests` Module

This example demonstrates how to make authenticated requests using API keys or basic authentication:
```
